feat(docs): How-to guides about UP4W agent startup (#944)
canonical/ubuntu-pro-for-wsl: docs/howto/start-agent-remotely.md

> # How to start the agent remotely

Reviewer: Consider whether there is a way to more clearly distinguish the titles of these two guides.

One is how to do X with the registry, this is how to do X with...?

In future, we might think about whether the guides should be combined.

Author: As how-to guides I believe they must remain separate, as they show two distinct approaches to not depend on the end-user interaction with the application and their slightly distinct implications. They could be fused in a single explanation page, though, but then we'd loose the straightforwardness of a how-to guide.

So I think the ultimate solution is to have an explanation or reference page about the UP4W background agent being a startup task,  covering the reason for such design, its limitations and referencing those how-to guides. That would allow removing the explanatory verbiage as you suggested.

Reviewer: Agreed!

Ubuntu Pro for WSL, being a Microsoft Store application, cannot ship user services as of the time of this writing (late
2024), but can deploy startup tasks instead, programs that run with user permissions when the said user logs on the
Windows device. The UP4W background agent runs as a startup task. By design a startup task is only enabled by the
operating system when the user interacts with the application for the first time. While this behaviour is a feature for
end users it presents a source of friction for deployments at scale, when system administrators expect zero-touch

> deployment of UP4W to just work.

Reviewer: This material seems broadly duplicated from the other guide.
While I understand it is relevant in both cases, I think it would be preferable if this more explanatory material, which provides valuable context for the guide(s), instead be captured in a dedicated Explanation article.

That explanation article could then be referenced in these guides, and any future guides pertaining to this topic, to provide context. As it stands, I think this explanatory material upsets the flow of the guides.

Consider truncating this if possible and we can try to encapsulate this in an explanation section next cycle.

> This guide shows how system administrators can leverage Windows remote management solutions to start the agent once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how system administrators can leverage Windows remote management solutions to start the UP4W background agent once
```

> with user credentials, thus interacting with the application in user's behalf. Subsequent logons will have the UP4W

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with user credentials, thus interacting with the application on the user's behalf. Subsequent logins will have the UP4W
```

> background agent automatically as a consequence of such interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
background agent started automatically as a consequence of the interaction.
```

> While this guide uses Intune, readers are expected to translate the steps into any remote management solution of their
> choice, as long as the said solution can run scripts with current user's credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this guide uses Intune, readers can translate the steps for the remote management solution of their
choice, as long as the said solution can run scripts with current user's credentials.
```

## Pre-requisites

- At least one managed Windows device.
- A Windows remote management solution.

> ## Key takeaways

Reviewer: Again, consider Overview or Summary.

I think this section will be more useful when the initial explanatory material is removed at a later date.

> 1. Running a script as user to start the UP4W background agent makes it immediately available.
> 2. Remote management solutions can be used to do that.
> 3. The operating system considers the startup task enabled going forward.
> 4. Subsequent logons will have the operating system starting the UP4W background agent automatically as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Running a script as user to start the UP4W background agent makes it immediately available.
2. Remote management solutions can be used to start the agent.
3. The startup task is then also enabled on the operating system.
4. On subsequent logins, the UP4W background agent starts automatically, as expected.
```

## Using Intune to run the UP4W background agent

The contents of the script can be far more elaborate, but for the purposes of this guide the following is enough:

```powershell
Write-Output "Starting the UP4W background agent remotely from Intune"
ubuntu-pro-agent.exe
```
**Make sure to save that as UTF-8**, as required by Intune.

Follow [this section from Intune documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/apps/intune-management-extension#create-a-script-policy-and-assign-it)

> if you need more detailed step-by-step guide on how to create and assign script policies.

Reviewer: Maybe make this a Note block. Seems like an aside.

Access your organisation's [Intune Admin Center](https://intune.microsoft.com) and when logged in go to **Devices > Monitor > Manage Devices > Scripts and remediations**.
On that page, click on the **Platform scripts** tab.
![Platform scripts revealed under Devices > Scripts and remediations](./assets/intune-platform-scripts.png)

Click on the "Add" button to create a new script policy and select the platform **Windows 10 and later**.

> Fill in the **Basics** form with Name and description for the script being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in the **Basics** form with a name and description for the script being created.
```

> In the **Settings** tab browse your machine to the PowerShell script to be deployed, and select the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Settings** tab, browse your machine to the PowerShell script to be deployed, and select the following options:
```

- Run this script using the logged on credentials: Yes (the default). UP4W must run with user credentials.

> - Enforce script signature check: No (unless required otherwise by your company's policies)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enforce script signature check: No (unless required otherwise by your company's policies).
```

- Run script in 64-bit PowerShell host: No (the default).

> Apply the "Scope tags" according to your company's practices and, in the "Assignments" make sure to select one or more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the "Scope tags" according to your company's practices and, in "Assignments" make sure to select one or more
```

> groups encompassing the users which must receive and run the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
groups encompassing the users that must receive and run the script.
```

> You can then monitor for this script execution in the Intune Admin Center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then monitor the execution of this script in the Intune Admin Center.
```

> When the selected users log on their devices Intune will eventually start the UP4W background agent, a terminal window
> will be visible with its regular outputs, which might be a user experience issue. But remember that it will only happen
> once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the selected users log in to their devices, Intune will eventually start the UP4W background agent. A terminal window
will be appear to the user showing its regular outputs. This will only happen
once.
```

I don't think we need to flag whether this is a UX issue or not, but just describe what happens.

A few things to consider clarifying briefly, if  necessary: what is meant by "regular outputs"; by "only happen once" do you mean once during each log in or once ever; does the user need to exit the terminal or does it disappear automatically?

## Remarks

Careful readers might have noticed that if the script is deployed in conjunction with a policy installing the UP4W, it
would be theoretically possible to have the script running before the application gets installed. A more elaborate
solution is required if that scenario is possible, like looping in the script or using a more proactive solution such as
[Intune Remediations](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/fundamentals/remediations).

[This guide](howto::enforce-with-intune) shows how to use that tool to enforce the UP4W startup task state.

> [modeline]: # ( vim: set tw=119: )

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
